README.md, before:

# WBUI
![Screenshot](screenshot.png)

A simple [retained mode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retained_mode) UI system written in pure Lua for the [LÖVE](https://love2d.org/) game engine.

## Usage
See `main.lua` for example usage. **Note that WBUI makes some assumptions about its path.** If you require WBUI with `require("foo.bar")`, WBUI will assume it is located at `foo/bar`. If this is not the case, you need to manually override `wbui.path` to refer to the correct path *before* calling `wbui.initialize`.

## License
This library is licensed under the zlib license. For more information, see `LICENSE.txt`. **This software is offered with no warranty. If it ruins your project or burns your house down, it's not my problem.**

**The default theme is designed to resemble the Windows Classic theme.** Given how simple the theme is and the fact respected projects such as [Wine](https://i.imgur.com/PHNGyHO.png) and [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/sites/default/files/linter.png) comfortably reimplement the same theme and claim legality, I don't think this is a problem. If you disagree, consider making a fork or pull request to change it.

[`calculator.png` is a public domain image by the Tango Desktop Project.](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Accessories-calculator.svg)

## Documentation
For something as simple as this, I'd recommend following the mantra of "The code *is* the documentation."
### Global
#### wbui.new(**string**: element class, **vararg** parameters)
Creates a new element. Parameters dependent on class. Internally does `return wbui.classes[name]:new(...)`.
#### wbui.class(**string**: class name, optional **table**: element class)
Creates a new element class. It may optionally extend another class. This does not add it to `wbui.classes` for use with `wbui.new`, so it is necessary to add it manually.
#### wbui.initialize(optional **table**: configuration data)
Initializes WBUI.
Key | Value
--- | ---
`fonts` | Table of fonts
`colors` | Table of colors
`classes` | Array of classes to load
### element
#### element:new(**vararg**: parameters)
Create, initialize, and return a new element. Called by `wbui.new`. Should not be called directly.
#### element:initialize(optional **number**: x, optional **number**: y)
Sets own X and Y coordinates relative to parent. Defaults to 0, 0.
#### element:append(**element**: child, optional **number**: index)
Add new child at specified index, or at the end if no index is specified.
#### element:remove()
Removes self from parent (if applicable). Does not actually destroy the object, so if you don't plan on respawning the window, you need to get rid of all references to it to avoid a memory leak.
#### element:update(**number**: dt)
Calls itself on all of its children.
#### element:draw()
Calls itself on all of its children. Make sure to reset the graphics state to something reasonable before using this or else weird things might happen. `love.graphics.translate` is used to make each child draw relative to its parent.
#### element:mouseDown(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number** y, **number** number of clicks in short time, **boolean**, is touch event)
Calls itself on any child where the cursor is within its bounding box.
#### element:mouseUp(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number** number of clicks in short time, **boolean**, is touch event)
Ditto.
#### element:mouseMoved(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Does nothing.
#### wbui.root:mouseUp(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number**: y)
Same as `element:mouseUp`, except it will also call itself once on `wbui.mouseDown`, if it exists.
#### wbui.root:mouseMoved(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Calls `element:mouseMoved` on `wbui.mouseDown`, if it exists.
### frame
Like a window, but with less functionality.
#### frame:initialize(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, **number**: height)
Creates a new frame with the corresponding dimensions.
### button
A button with text that can be clicked.
#### button:initialize(optional **string**: text, **number**: x, **number**: y, optional **number**: width, optional **number**: height)
Defaults to 75×23. If text is not specified, the button will be blank.
#### button:onClick()
Does nothing. Intended to be overridden by the user.
### imagebutton
Like a button, but with an image.
#### imagebutton:initialize(optional **Image**: image, **number**: x, **number**: y, optional **number**: width, optional **number**: height)
Defaults to 75×23. If image is a string, it will be loaded with `love.graphics.newImage`. If no image is specified, the button will be blank.
### window
A window with a title bar and (optional) title bar buttons that can be focused, unfocused, or dragged around.
#### window:initialize(optional **string**: title, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, **number**: height)
Creates a new window. If no title is specified, "Window" will be used. The window will have focus by default, so if you spawn multiple windows at once, you should call `window:bringToFront` on one so that only one is focused.
#### window:bringToFront()
Focuses the window and unfocuses any other window with the same parent.
#### window:setMaximized(**boolean**: maximized)
Sets whether the window is maximized or not. When maximized, the window fills its entire parent and cannot be resized. When unmaximized, the window is restored to is original size.
#### window:close()
Removes the window and brings another window to the front.
#### window:onClose()
Does nothing. Return `true` to prevent the window from being closed.
#### window:toggleMaximized()
Calls `window:setMaximized` and updates the button icon.
#### window:minimize()
Does nothing.
#### window:help()
Does nothing.
#### window:showButton(**string**: name, **boolean** add rather than remove)
Adds (or removes) the title bar button with the specified name and calls `window:updateButtonPositions`. If the name is something other than "close," "maximize," "minimize," or "help," extra work will be needed to make the button work properly. The button's icon and click handler will be determined by the `window.buttonIcons` and `window.buttonClickHandlers` tables. If the icon does not exist, the button will be blank. If the handler does not exist, the button will not have one. The button will be stored in `self[name..'btn']`.
#### window:updateButtonPositions()
Updates the position of the title bar buttons. Will ignore any button besides close, maximize, minimize, and help.
#### window:setIcon(optional **Image**: icon)
Sets (or removes) the icon for the window. If the icon is a string, it will be loaded with `love.graphics.newImage`. The icon *should* but does not *have* to be 16×16. If it's too large, it will be scaled down.
#### window:updateInnerDimensions()
Updates `self.ix`, `self.iy`, `self.iw`, and `self.ih` to correspond with the window's dimensions. Also calls `window:updateButtonPositions`.
#### window:generateTitleBar()
Generates the meshes used for the title bar gradient. You only need to call this manually if you update the title bar colors *after* creating the window.
### label
Displays text.
#### label:initialize(optional **string**: text, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, optional **number** height)
If text is not specified, "Label" will be used. If height is not specified, it will be calculated with `label:calculateHeight`.
#### label:calculateHeight(optional **number**: width)
Returns the calculated height of the text. Uses current width if not specified.

Commit message:

add element:mouseEnter, element:mouseLeave, add resizing, add cursor changes

README.md, after:

# WBUI
![Screenshot](screenshot.png)

A simple [retained mode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retained_mode) UI system written in pure Lua for the [LÖVE](https://love2d.org/) game engine.

## Usage
See `main.lua` for example usage. **Note that WBUI makes some assumptions about its path.** If you require WBUI with `require("foo.bar")`, WBUI will assume it is located at `foo/bar`. If this is not the case, you need to manually override `wbui.path` to refer to the correct path *before* calling `wbui.initialize`.

## License
This library is licensed under the zlib license. For more information, see `LICENSE.txt`. **This software is offered with no warranty. If it ruins your project or burns your house down, it's not my problem.**

**The default theme is designed to resemble the Windows Classic theme.** Given how simple the theme is and the fact respected projects such as [Wine](https://i.imgur.com/PHNGyHO.png) and [ReactOS](https://reactos.org/sites/default/files/linter.png) comfortably reimplement the same theme and claim legality, I don't think this is a problem. If you disagree, consider making a fork or pull request to change it.

[`calculator.png` is a public domain image by the Tango Desktop Project.](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Accessories-calculator.svg)

## Documentation
For something as simple as this, I'd recommend following the mantra of "The code *is* the documentation."
### Global
#### wbui.new(**string**: element class, **vararg** parameters)
Creates a new element. Parameters dependent on class. Internally does `return wbui.classes[name]:new(...)`.
#### wbui.class(**string**: class name, optional **table**: element class)
Creates a new element class. It may optionally extend another class. This does not add it to `wbui.classes` for use with `wbui.new`, so it is necessary to add it manually.
#### wbui.initialize(optional **table**: configuration data)
Initializes WBUI.
Key | Value
--- | ---
`fonts` | Table of fonts
`colors` | Table of colors
`classes` | Array of classes to load
### element
#### element:new(**vararg**: parameters)
Create, initialize, and return a new element. Called by `wbui.new`. Should not be called directly.
#### element:initialize(optional **number**: x, optional **number**: y)
Sets own X and Y coordinates relative to parent. Defaults to 0, 0.
#### element:append(**element**: child, optional **number**: index)
Add new child at specified index, or at the end if no index is specified.
#### element:remove()
Removes self from parent (if applicable). Does not actually destroy the object, so if you don't plan on respawning the window, you need to get rid of all references to it to avoid a memory leak.
#### element:update(**number**: dt)
Calls itself on all of its children.
#### element:draw()
Calls itself on all of its children. Make sure to reset the graphics state to something reasonable before using this or else weird things might happen. `love.graphics.translate` is used to make each child draw relative to its parent.
#### element:mouseDown(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number** y, **number** number of clicks in short time, **boolean**, is touch event)
Calls itself on any child where the cursor is within its bounding box.
#### element:mouseUp(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number** number of clicks in short time, **boolean**, is touch event)
Ditto.
#### element:mouseMoved(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Ditto, but also calls `element:mouseEnter` and `element:mouseLeave`. Buggy.
#### element:mouseEnter(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Does nothing. Called when the cursor hovers over the element.
#### element:mouseLeave(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Does nothing. Called when the cursor stops hovering over the element.
#### wbui.root:mouseUp(**number**: button, **number**: x, **number**: y)
Same as `element:mouseUp`, except it will also call itself once on `wbui.mouseDown`, if it exists.
#### wbui.root:mouseMoved(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: relative x, **number**: relative y, **boolean**: is touch event)
Same as `element:mouseMoved`, except it will also call itself once on `wbui.mouseDown`, if it exists.
### frame
Like a window, but with less functionality.
#### frame:initialize(**number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, **number**: height)
Creates a new frame with the corresponding dimensions.
### button
A button with text that can be clicked.
#### button:initialize(optional **string**: text, **number**: x, **number**: y, optional **number**: width, optional **number**: height)
Defaults to 75×23. If text is not specified, the button will be blank.
#### button:onClick()
Does nothing. Intended to be overridden by the user.
### imagebutton
Like a button, but with an image.
#### imagebutton:initialize(optional **Image**: image, **number**: x, **number**: y, optional **number**: width, optional **number**: height)
Defaults to 75×23. If image is a string, it will be loaded with `love.graphics.newImage`. If no image is specified, the button will be blank.
### window
A window with a title bar and (optional) title bar buttons that can be focused, unfocused, or dragged around.
#### window:initialize(optional **string**: title, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, **number**: height)
Creates a new window. If no title is specified, "Window" will be used. The window will have focus by default, so if you spawn multiple windows at once, you should call `window:bringToFront` on one so that only one is focused.
#### window:bringToFront()
Focuses the window and unfocuses any other window with the same parent.
#### window:setMaximized(**boolean**: maximized)
Sets whether the window is maximized or not. When maximized, the window fills its entire parent and cannot be resized. When unmaximized, the window is restored to is original size.
#### window:close()
Removes the window and brings another window to the front.
#### window:onClose()
Does nothing. Return `true` to prevent the window from being closed.
#### window:toggleMaximized()
Calls `window:setMaximized` and updates the button icon.
#### window:minimize()
Does nothing.
#### window:help()
Does nothing.
#### window:showButton(**string**: name, **boolean** add rather than remove)
Adds (or removes) the title bar button with the specified name and calls `window:updateButtonPositions`. If the name is something other than "close," "maximize," "minimize," or "help," extra work will be needed to make the button work properly. The button's icon and click handler will be determined by the `window.buttonIcons` and `window.buttonClickHandlers` tables. If the icon does not exist, the button will be blank. If the handler does not exist, the button will not have one. The button will be stored in `self[name..'btn']`.
#### window:updateButtonPositions()
Updates the position of the title bar buttons. Will ignore any button besides close, maximize, minimize, and help.
#### window:setIcon(optional **Image**: icon)
Sets (or removes) the icon for the window. If the icon is a string, it will be loaded with `love.graphics.newImage`. The icon *should* but does not *have* to be 16×16. If it's too large, it will be scaled down.
#### window:updateInnerDimensions()
Updates `self.ix`, `self.iy`, `self.iw`, and `self.ih` to correspond with the window's dimensions. Also calls `window:updateButtonPositions`.
#### window:generateTitleBar()
Generates the meshes used for the title bar gradient. You only need to call this manually if you update the title bar colors *after* creating the window.
### label
Displays text.
#### label:initialize(optional **string**: text, **number**: x, **number**: y, **number**: width, optional **number** height)
If text is not specified, "Label" will be used. If height is not specified, it will be calculated with `label:calculateHeight`.
#### label:calculateHeight(optional **number**: width)
Returns the calculated height of the text. Uses current width if not specified.
